>> Kevin Powell: Another one of my
absolute favorite new things in CSS,
which is a perfect
progressive enhancement,
is that we can now animate to and
from display none.
This is something that we've long wanted
and it was just impossible to do or you'd
have to use JavaScript so you'd bring
the element in with an opacity of zero and
then once that was there then
you'd add a class to it.
It wasn't fun.
And it's actually
relatively easy to do now.
So the best case in this project, or the
best thing I think, to work on for that,
is with our mobile navigation.
Because if we take a look at our
mobile navigation, it goes in and out.
Works it's fine but a lot of the time
we have animations on these.
They slide in, they slide down.
They fade in.
There's different things
we can do with it.
So we'll start with a fading animation,
but
then we'll see how we can
step it up from there, and
you can play around with it a little bit
and come up with some really fun things.
So for this would be in our components.
The stuff for
our primary navigation is here right now.
And so this is my primary nav.
No, that's not the primary nav.
The primary navigation is right here.
We only need to do this
within our media query,
cuz this is where we're playing with it.
So I'm gonna stick within this
media query that's here right now.
I do apologize.
This is like a placeholder for nothing.
But I think it didn't work.
Sometimes when you have something extra in
there, it fixes the syntax highlighting.
Let me just try again, li.
>> Kevin Powell: It doesn't like
that there's no selector there.
So I might do this just to fix
the syntax highlighting so
it looks a little bit better.
It might break some stuff along the way,
but we'll see what happens.
Does it still work?
Okay, so don't necessarily
repeat this in your own code.
I'm just doing it so the syntax
highlighting looks a little nicer.
So we have our display none,
that's perfect.
And then we're going from the display
none to this display block right here,
display block when it comes in.
The problem right now is if I came up on
here and maybe wanted to fade in, so not
only is it gonna be a display: none, but
I'm going to put an opacity of 0 on here.
And then I'm gonna come all
the way down for when it comes in.
And I want this to have an opacity of 1.
Nothing, that's fine,
not expecting any difference.
We can come back up here.
I forgot that as well.
That wouldn't have changed anything,
though.
And then I can go transition opacity.
Let's just say one second.
It's way too slow, but let's say we did
that, and you'd expect it to transition,
but it doesn't.
The reason CSS doesn't transition in
this case is because display property is
technically animatable, but
it's considered a discrete animation.
And a discrete animation is something
that CSS can't really animate,
because what's in between display none and
display block,
there's nothing that makes
sense within those that range.
If you did it within
a keyframes animation,
what it would do is halfway between
the two keyframes you've done.
It's gonna switch from one to the other.
So that's the discrete animation.
It's letting the animation happen, but
it's just flipping a switch if you're
trying to transition something, and
that item that you're transitioning
has something that involve,
is involved in a discretionary animation,
or has is a discretionary animation.
Your transition just won't work at all.
This was the traditional problem
that we've had up until now.
But luckily, we can actually come here and
now say we're also gonna
transition display one second.
I wish we only had to do that.
It's still not gonna work.
But we only have one other thing.
I'm gonna take a new line.
This is the new thing we can
do transition,-behavior, and
it's called allow-discrete.
So anything that would have a discrete
animation, it's saying, you know what?
We know that it's there.
We're gonna allow it, and it's opt in,
or they've done this as an opt in, and
the reason they're doing it as an opt in
type of thing is just because there could
be old websites that things
were set up in a certain way.
And because of the way it worked,
everything was fine.
And if they change the default behavior,
some animations or
weird stuff might start happening.
So instead of changing
the default behavior,
they're giving us a one line opt in.
And it sort of works because
you can see it fades out.
Doesn't fade in but
it fades out halfway there, pretty good.
It's already exciting that we
can do that in one direction.
What it's basically doing at this stage
is when it goes from let's open it,
because it's easier to understand.
When we're here, we have display block,
we have opacity of 1 and
I'm saying I want to transition
the opacity over one second, and
I want to transition
the display over one second.
Display doesn't really transition, though.
So what it's doing is it's transitioning
the opacity for one second.
And when that one second is finished, it's
instantly changing the display block just
to get rid of it, and
it goes to the display: none.
So that's why when we go this way,
it works without any problems.
When we're coming the other
way on the animation, though,
that type of thing can't work because we
have to instantly change to display block
at the very beginning.
And as soon as it gets display block
on it, it's rendering that on the page,
and it's instantly jumping
to the styles we have here.
Because these are both true.
It never had that opacity of zero, because
it's sort of that style never existed on
that element cuz it was a display none.
It didn't exist on the page.
It's this weird sort of conundrum
type thing that we've run into.
So to help with that, we have another
new property called @starting.style.
So it's another at property VS code still
doesn't recognize it, but it works.
And here you just put your
starting styles on there.
So my starting style is
actually an opacity of 0.
And so now it will fade out and
it will fade in, because when it instantly
switches that display to block,
it's going okay, it's block.
But now I'm gonna start with an opacity of
0 instead of instantly just coming up to
the styles that are here.
There's one kind of strange thing I find
with this entire thing is just wrapping
your mind around the order that
you have to put things in.
You generally have your closed state or
your exit state first,
then you have your
finished entrance state.
And then you have this like
transition in from state at the end,
if you bring this up here, it won't
work and not just 'cause the syntax
highlighting is broken, so when I open it,
it's just opening instantly.
The reason this is happening is
the same reason that if you have,
it's just the order CSS
goes from top to bottom.
So it sees the opacity 0 as a starting
style, but then it sees the opacity 1 and
it just gets the opacity 1.
This is the same as if you did a media
query first, like we could do it here.
Let's just say the, I don't know.
We'll say site,
we'll do primary navigation.
Primary, navigation, background, red,
important, just to make sure
it actually comes through.
And then if I put a media query
underneath this at media width
is bigger than 200 pixels, so
we know that it's gonna work.
Background, green, important, and
I probably should have nested that,
or we'll just do .primarynavigation
>> Kevin Powell: That we're getting
the green because it does this.
Then it goes, okay,
this media query is overwriting it.
But if I brought this media query here and
I bring it above that, it's gonna become
red, because this is if the width is
greater than 200 but this is always.
So then the red wins over the media
query that we have there.
So it's the same thing
with your starting style.
The starting style gets disclaimed first,
then it sees opacity one,
it just assumes that's the always style
for everything, and it doesn't win.
So your starting style,
despite it being the starting thing.
Does have to be the last
thing that's declared,
which it takes a little bit of getting
used to, but it's just what it is.
>> Kevin Powell: Now,
there is one really nice advantage, and
it feels a little bit weird, in a sense,
that you have an opacity 0 here, and
the opacity 0 here, and
you need to have it in both places.
But there's an advantage of
having this starting style and
that we actually need it even if it
feels a little bit clunky at times.
And the reason that that has
an advantage to it is because it
actually enables a different entrance and
exit animation if that's what you want.
Because this is,
let's do a quick one here.
We're doing our opacity, our display,
and let's add a third one to our list,
where I'm also gonna do
a translate of 1 second.
While I'm here, just really fast,
the transition behavior allow-discrete,
I'm doing it here.
It could be included in
the transition shorthand.
I just find it easier to do my transitions
and add that here, because then I know
it's gonna get applied to everything,
and I don't have to stress about it.
So yeah, that's just why I have
it as a separate property.
It is included as part of
the shorthand if you want it, but
I'm gonna do my translate right there.
And this is when it's closed.
So when my menu is closed,
let's move it up.
So to move it up would be a translate
of I'm gonna get it wrong 01,
100% it's probably gonna
go to the wrong place.
Yes, it did -100 and it will go up.
So now, when I open it, we need it.
When we open it, we need it to slide down,
so I can come here and
I can say the translate is a 00, so
it will slide up and then it will appear.
That's kind of interesting, right?
It's already two separate animations,
and that's because our starting style,
the only thing on it is the opacity.
So I can have it slide up when it leaves,
but when it enters,
maybe I'm gonna do a translate of 100% and
0 this way.
So if I do that, when it enters,
it's actually entering from the side.
And when it leaves, it slides at the top.
I actually prefer it the other way around.
So I think I'll do a 0-100 here,
and then all the way
up here we can do this whoops
we can do this as the 100,
0 and I just remembered looking at
that this should be a negative.
And I think I did that wrong we'll find
out slides out slides down there we
go slides that way and
then slides that way.
Something fun you can definitely do lots
of really fun, cool stuff with this with
different entrance, exit animations,
not just for navigations.
It could be for if you have cards
that you click and it adds,
like a to do list item,
you can have it transition in.
And then when you close that or
finish that to do list item, it leaves in
a different direction or has a different
animation on it, all really easily